[MOS-307] Application and Service example and docs (#3663)
mudita/MuditaOS: module-apps/ModuleApps.md

- Have limited lifespan
- Can operate with actions and popups

# How to add application

This paragraph is using `applicaton-test` as an example.

**WARNING** All applications are enabled by default. Please disable yours if it's not always needed in [CMakeLists.txt](CMakeLists.txt). I.e. following: `option(ENABLE_APP_TEST "Enable application test" OFF)`

* Add new `application` catalog in `module-apps` i.e. `application-test`
* Add a CMake for it, simple example here: [application-test/CMakeLists.txt](application-test/CMakeLists.txt)
* Create:
    * include/application-test/ for public includes for this application
    * create appliation header with:
        * Appilcation definition - inheriting from `Application`
        * AppliactionManifest - stating what actions can this application support, and its lock policy
**NOTE** We strongly encourage using [MVP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model–view–presenter) application GUI pattern.
* create presenters & windows catalogs with all the windows and presenters you require. Each application require at least one window.
* Write `InitHandler()` for application.
    * **NOTE** This is your application entry point!

>     * **NOTE** if it's not copied properly - application won't start and work

Author: actually... yes :) I could write "implemented" but in fact, all of these are copy/paste from somewhere :face_exhaling:

Due to the fact that the application can be closed before asynchronous data is received one should have initialized `AsyncCallbackReceiver(this)`.
To have notifications on changed db one should connect to notifications from the db:
```
bus.channels.push_back(sys::BusChannel::ServiceDBNotifications);
```
To propagate changes from the database to UI handling one have to pass these from application to windows, if not via presenter it can be done like this:
``` c++
if (msgl->messageType == MessageType::DBServiceNotification) {
    auto msg = dynamic_cast<db::NotificationMessage *>(msgl);
    if (msg != nullptr) {
        userInterfaceDBNotification(msgl,
            [&]([[maybe_unused]] sys::Message *, [[maybe_unused]] const std::string &) {
                // your code here
             });
        return std::make_shared<sys::ResponseMessage>();
    }
}
```

# Asynchronous database queries

You can perform datababase queries via [query interface](../../module-db/queries/README.md). 

To have safe way to perform asynchronous calls there is `app::AsyncQuery` which:
* creates a query
* when it's done results are passed to the callback

> * if i.e. UI element is removed its callback is automatically removed

Author: in this particular example system notification should suffice. Actually, this would be a nice thing to address on OS training?

    * **NOTE** if it's not copied properly - application won't start and work
Please see example in: [ApplicationTest.cpp](application-test/ApplicationTest.cpp) for `InitHandler()`
* Write `createUserInterface()`, which role is:
    * provide windowsFactory with windows blueprints for this application
    * inform what popups this application handles
**WARNING** default window for each application is always named `gui::name::window::main_window` without said window application may be never shown properly

Basic example can be found in this catalog: [application-test](./application-test)

# How to launch app:

1. From service/app via action `Launch`
example:
``` c++
return app::manager::Controller::sendAction(application,
                                            app::manager::actions::Launch,
                                            std::make_unique<app::ApplicationLaunchData>("ApplicationAlarmClock"));
                                  });

```
2. Enable it in background with parameter: `startInBackground` in Application constructor

**WARNING** Enabling app in background means it will always lay on stack and heap and never end

> **WARNING** App in background just doesn't handle `Launch` this means that if you call `Launch` on the system, there will be [Terrible, terrible damage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKZlcgOzi_E)

Author: I'll split the response here into two parts:

1. Log part: 

I was wondering if it will get through :D 
In the system, in ApplicationCommon.cpp there is a log: 
```
LOG_FATAL("!!! Terrible terrible damage! application with no focus grabbed key!");
```
that actually is a reference to these SC2 casts :) After some major reworks, I was a tad frustrated about the fact that only 2/3rds of the mess in application launching was fixed - as the only thing I really required at the moment was to have some application stack. The part on apps <-> app manager <-> event manager synchronization was left out.
As you can see - issues known years ago are still in place :) 

Saying that - I'll reluctantly remove the SC2 reference ;) 

2. ` not send Launch action to this app`

This is a tricky question. Short answer: `you should send launch to the app to start`. You should actually send the launch to any app to start except the home one.
The problem is with the synchronization part 
- we can send launch action before we have the application manager ready to launch applications. 
- there is no way to synchronize dependency to application manager from other services
This clearly is a bug in the software. We do not see it daily most probably because system startup is slow enough.

> **WARNING** App in background just doesn't handle `Launch` this means that if you call `Launch` on the system, there will be [Terrible, terrible damage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKZlcgOzi_E)

Reviewer: Im in favor of small easter eggs in code and documentation, especially in opensource. Its like a smile from the developer for future readers to thank them for spending time on the code :)

* if i.e. UI element is removed its callback is automatically removed

It's defined here: [AsyncTask.hpp](../apps-common/AsyncTask.hpp)

**NOTE** to automatically pass Async db::query data to appliaction you have to:
* inherit in appliaction/item from `public app::AsyncCallbackReceiver`
* pass data to said item in DataReceivedHandler via
`return handleAsyncResponse(resp);` at the end of `DataReceivedHandler()`

# GUI library

GUI library documentation here: [module-gui](../module-gui/README.md)
Please mind that it has Doxygen documentation explaining it's use for all base elements and functions.

# System actions

System action is a call from service -> application.
**NOTE** By design applications are running only when required, whereas services are available at all times after started.

With it, we can:
- Let application manager what application should handle action
- Let user decide what actions said application can handle
- Change intristic application state on service/app request
    i.e. disable popups or request to show different app
- Change extristic application state on service
    i.e. show popup in application

## What's a popup

> **WARNING** In Module OS popup is a Window which can be shown any time on action request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**WARNING** In Module OS popup is a Window that can be shown any time on action request.
```

**NOTE** attachPopups should be most probably moved to `manifest` and popup enum just removed

> Popups weren't designed as part of system, but rather step by step integrated into it. While there should be no issue with partially overflowing popups in the applications and UI it would mean major sourcecode refactoring and planning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Popups weren't designed as part of the system, but rather step by step integrated into it. While there should be no issue with partially overflowing popups in the applications and UI it would mean major source code refactoring and planning.
```

Each popup have:
- **ID** used to identify popup and in the end is just translated to its string name.
- **blueprint** that follows the same logic as window blueprint - it's used to create handling of said popup.
- **priority** that discerns if in what order should the popups be shown

## Adding popup

### To use popup one have to

1. send popup action somewhere in the code
2. add registration on popup in application

> 3. add popup blueprint in the application if required - by default popup will be created from the window requested

Author: it's the prior.

Popup will be created from the window requested in the popup blueprint. Should I add `blueprint` at the end of the sentence?
